Vampires are a humanoid species that humans turn into, but only in rare occasions. This being when a particularly adept [🌙 Night](<../../Magic/Elements/🌙 Night.md>) mage inscribes a ritual to make them a vampire. This can be for many reasons, as there are many benefits to being a vampire, but there are also some downsides.

Vampires age a lot slower, or could even stop aging completely if the ritual is done flawlessly. Their magical affinity and power is also strengthened, but this comes with the downside of not being able to naturally generate their own magic from emotions anymore. To be able to use magic and cast spells, vampires need to drain emotion from other creatures, and can then use that emotion to fuel their magic. This means that vampires can store a lot more magic than humans can.

It is necessary for vampires to always have some leftover magic, as they passively use magic to uphold the ritual, which is now the only thing keeping them alive. Without magic, they start to slowly die.

The most well known and expected way to drain emotion is by biting the creature, and draining their emotion (as well as their blood, which doesn't benefit or harm the vampire) that way. This is however, not the only way to drain emotion from a creature. Granted a powerful enough vampire, they can passively and very slowly drain the emotion of all creatures near them, allowing them to not only spare living creatures of physical harm or death, but also remain unnoticed in the case that they are hiding their identity. If a vampire has multiple affinities, they can also implement their other affinities to drain emotion in different ways. An example of this is using a [❇ Heal Spell](<../Society/Stereotypes/❇ Heal Spell.md>) that also drains emotion as an added side effect.