Rituals are a way of casting spells. To do a ritual you need to write an inscription for a spell, and include a glyph that signifies it is a ritual. What differentiates rituals from spells, is that they can be performed with multiple people. This allows for more customization and fine tuning of a spell. Ritual spells also allow for the caster(s) to save the spell under any other link that they have, preserving it for more shorthand use.

When multiple people do a ritual together, each caster does their own section of the total spell. For example if 2 Daylight mages work together on a ritual that summons shooting stars from the heavens that hit opponents, the mages might plan that both mages bring down as many stars as they can individually, but this can prove inefficient, due to the complexity of creating and guiding shooting stars. If they instead simplify the process by having one creating/summoning the shooting stars, and the other guide all of them in the same direction, their efficiency and usefulness of the spell increases. This then means the spell given to each of them after the ritual is also more efficient.

If multiple people with the same element work on a ritual together, they can all save the spell under triggers they choose individually, and they can alter the spell after the ritual as they can any other. This allows for immensely complex spells that require a lot of emotion and multiple people to manage to even be cast at all, to be done. If this is done, then the casters will all have that complex spell able to be simplified for shorthand use, something they would never had been able to do if they did it alone.

If the ritual is done with casters of multiple elements, simplifying the spell to a shorthand version works differently, due to the fact that casters can't cast spells that they don't have. Each person can simplify the part of the spell they cast with their element. This often makes the spell dysfunctional, however, it is possible to have the original casters of the ritual to cast their version of the spell together, to cast it shorthand.